feat: add new `catalogMode` setting (#9552)
pnpm/pnpm: .changeset/wide-ghosts-own.md

---
"@pnpm/core": minor
"@pnpm/config": minor
"@pnpm/plugin-commands-installation": patch

> "@pnpm/plugin-commands-patching": patch

Reviewer: Heads up that we usually add `pnpm: minor` as well for new features to indicate what the next pnpm binary version should be.

```suggestion
"@pnpm/plugin-commands-patching": patch
pnpm: minor
```

---

> Add new setting `useCatalogs` with options `always`, `prefer`, and `manual` for controlling if and how dependencies are added to the default catalog.

Author: 100% agree.

> Add new setting `catalogMode` with options `strict`, `prefer`, and `manual` for controlling if and how dependencies are added to the default catalog.

Reviewer: nitpick: @zkochan might have a different opinion, but I usually like to write this without the imperative mood since I find it strange in release notes.

```suggestion
A new `catalogMode` setting is available for controlling if and how dependencies are added to the default catalog. It can be configured to several modes:
```

The current imperative mood (e.g. "_Add new setting..._") makes sense for git commits, but I personally don't use imperative mood for release notes.

Reviewer 2: I don't have a different opinion.

- `strict`: Only allows dependency versions from the catalog. Adding a dependency outside the catalog's version range will cause an error.
- `prefer`: Prefers catalog versions, but will fall back to direct dependencies if no compatible version is found.

> - `manual` (default): Does not automatically add dependencies to the catalog.

Reviewer 2: We also added `saveCatalogName`, which when set, will add new dependencies to catalogs. So, there's a bit of an overlap.

Author: Would you like me to add a note, or any additional checks related to the `saveCatalogName` setting?
